# Redux Advanced

## Reducers and Actions

### Reducers

- A reducer is a function that accepts a state and an action as arguments, and returns a new state result.
- The reducer is a pure function that takes the previous state and an action, and returns the next state.
- The reducer function is called a reducer because it's the type of function you would pass to `Array.prototype.reduce(reducer, ?initialValue)`.

### Actions

- An action is a plain object that represents an intention to change the state.
- Actions are the only way to get data into the store.
- Actions must have a `type` property that indicates the type of action being performed.
- Actions are created using action creators.

## Redux Toolkit

- Redux Toolkit is the official, opinionated, batteries-included toolset for efficient Redux development.
- It is intended to be the standard way to write Redux logic.
- It was originally created to help address three common concerns about Redux:
  - "Configuring a Redux store is too complicated"
  - "I have to add a lot of packages to get Redux to do anything useful"
  - "Redux requires too much boilerplate code"

### Redux Toolkit Packages

- Redux Toolkit includes several packages that provide useful Redux functionality out of the box.
- The most important packages are:
  - `@reduxjs/toolkit`
  - `react-redux`
- The `@reduxjs/toolkit` package is the actual Redux Toolkit library.
- The `react-redux` package provides React bindings for Redux.


## Create Slice

- The `createSlice` function is the recommended API for creating Redux logic.
- It accepts an object of reducer functions, a slice name, and an initial state value, and automatically generates action creators and action types that correspond to the reducers and state.
- The `createSlice` function also generates a "slice reducer" function that knows how to respond to all of the action types generated by the slice.
- The `createSlice` function returns an object with the following properties:
  - `reducer`: The slice reducer function
  - `actions`: An object containing the generated action creators
  - `actionTypes`: An object containing the generated action types

### Create Slice Example
    
```js
    import { createSlice } from "@reduxjs/toolkit";

    const initialState = { value: 0 };

    const counterSlice = createSlice({
      name: "counter",
      initialState,
      reducers: {
        increment: (state) => {
          // Redux Toolkit allows us to write "mutating" logic in reducers. It
          // doesn't actually mutate the state because it uses the Immer library,
          // which detects changes to a "draft state" and produces a brand new
          // immutable state based off those changes
          state.value += 1;
        },
        decrement: (state) => {
          state.value -= 1;
        },
        incrementByAmount: (state, action) => {
          state.value += action.payload;
        },
      },
    });

    export const { increment, decrement, incrementByAmount } = counterSlice.actions;

    export default counterSlice.reducer;
```
